CHAPTER 7

Thanks to Fenicia's quick action, the killer whale-squid-crab-machine
affair delayed Starry Vine's voyage only by a small amount. Her
heading was still due north, and she did not veer very far off-course
in the fray. She agreed with Stratus that the ordeal should not faze
or distract the crew, but, despite the fact the only animals who were
formally tasked with thinking about it were Stratus and Netto, she
couldn't stop thinking about it anyway.

So she turned to her therapy: standing alone as far forward on the
bowsprit as she could safely manage. Starry Vine was still in the
southwestern sea, but she was making good speed with the wind mostly
behind her. The up-and-down motion of the ship, the sensation of
climbing the hills and descending the valleys of the ocean waves, was
emphasized this far forward. But that's what made it right.

Fenicia readjusted her eyepatch and saw the outermost isles of the
Strangleroot sub-archipelago to the east. The sheer cliffs, dense
foliage, and narrow waterways meant most of the Strangleroot system
was uninhabited. She observed a tall and thin formation on the
westernmost promontory: a flagpole without a flag? As always, she
didn't dwell on it for longer than necessary.

The largest and flattest island, which was home to the City of
Strangleroot, was blocked by these outer islands, so Fenicia could not
see it. Probably couldn't see it from the crow's nest, even. The
entire region had an unfairly negative reputation, on account of the
strangleroot vine being popularly recognized as the ideal material to
fashion a garrotte. Of course the vine had dozens or even hundreds of
uses beyond choking animals to death, but the City's inhabitants were
uncomfortable enough to start the petition to change its name to
"Tangletown." The measure was actually gaining traction, which Fenicia
found preposterous.

Fenicia was not alone for long. A female red truco with an extra-long
tail feather perched on the guardrail beside her.

"Ahoy, Lani." The bird bobbed her head. The shape of her black beak
and the expressiveness of her eyes made it seem like she was always
smiling. But Fenicia knew it was just an illusion. "It'd be horrible
to have only one facial expression," she pondered absentmindedly.

The dog and the bird enjoyed a quiet moment with one another until
Fenicia severed the silence. "Lani, you are free soul. The freest. You
can literally fly away whenever you want. You belong to nobody. Why do
you stay here with us?" Lani cocked her head. "It's gotta be more than
just because we have seeds and crickets for you. Anybeast in the
Archipelago has seeds and crickets for you. So there must be something
about *our* seeds that keeps you coming back." Lani squawked. "I saw
you tremble in fear at the weird tentacle machine. You coulda hopped
on the nope-raft and just abandoned ship. No one would blame you. It
was scary. We're in a scary business. But... you didn't. Why?"

The two of them looked skyward as they noticed a formation of
albatrosses gliding towards the northeast. The mid-afternoon sky was
bright and inviting, and the flock would have no doubt finding their
way to wherever they were going. Those birds could circumnavigate the
entire Hurricane's Eye without stopping if they felt like it. For
them, it was effortless. Just what they were meant to do. So it seemed
the nomad's lot was the natural, default state of being. They stayed
together, but they never stayed put. So Fenicia and Lani refused to
leave their nest, their creche. They weren't going anywhere, yet they
have seen the world. Therefore, the world must have been moving around
them, not the other way around.

Fenicia grabbed a clementine from her pocket, unpeeled it, and offered
it in an open paw. Lani was confused. Then Fenicia used her other paw
to sprinkle some sunflower seeds on top. Finally, Lani understood.

"You don't think I actually have a shot at being First Mate, right?"
Fenicia asked.

For the remainder of her days, Fenicia would swear that as Lani chewed
on the treat, the bird winked.