CHAPTER 12

The crew who remained at the hideout on the riverbank reported no
further complications, thank the Maker. Among the crickets and the
fireflies in the grove where Stratus lay, Fenicia considered the
situation critically. Their position was far more fragile,
tremendously more delicate than it ever should have been. Sharktooth
sent assassins, and they did assassinate the captain. They only sent
enough thugs to take out the captain, and maybe his also his
quartermaster and first mate. But they would never return to tell the
tale. Therefore, the very best news that Sharktooth would have is that
Stratus was still alive. That would motivate Sharktooth to send out
even more criminals. That would be alarming in itself, but it laid
bare a disconcerting truth: Sharktooth somehow predicted Starry Vine
would be at the hideout in the northeast! That contradicted what
Stratus said in Port Sokuit, that he had his associates spread
*misinformation* to Sharktooth on purpose. So how did Sharktooth know
the truth? Fenicia put the metaphorical corn-cob pipe in her mouth.
*Try to be realistic.* Maybe Sharktooth didn't really know, and simply
sent a pawful of thugs to Kriyata just to be safe. Maybe Sharktooth
knew he was being deceived, or at least hypothesized he was, if for
instance he was given conflicting accounts. Or maybe the assassins
weren't actually from Sharktooth's clan, despite the trademark
necklaces. Fenicia wasn't pleased that she didn't know -- and
therefore couldn't predict Sharktooth's next move -- but at least she
could rule out the possibility he had a crystal ball.

What would the captain do?

"Hey, Lady!"

Fenicia turned around. "Champ."

"May I join you?" He was smiling slightly. What a curiously
gentlebeast-like introduction. It made Fenicia dart her eye a little.

"Course," she said.

So he sat beside her on the rock, facing the captain. His black and
white furry tail gently glistened among the fireflies. Her golden but
dull and unkempt tail just drooped. The sound of nighttime crickets
was a treat, since they never got to hear them while at sea. No, in
their world, the sounds of night were exactly the same as the sounds
of day: waves crashing, floorboards creaking, seagulls calling, sails
flapping, time passing.

Zephyr finally broke the silence. "He was a good guy."

"A very good guy, even," Fenicia admitted.

"Y'know, you've been out here for a long time," Zephyr said. "He must
have been really special to you."

"Wasn't he special to you, too?"

"Ah, well, I guess I mean, like, you two had a bond. A special bond."

"I grew up with him," Fenicia offered. "He taught me a lot. I can't
think of a better leader than him... but, you hear me, Zephyr?
Everything I just said is true for everyone aboard the ship."

Zephyr waited a beat before continuing. "I have a thought."

"Out with it."

"I have a feeling that the captain... well, looked up to you."

Fenicia snorted. "Don't be foolish, matey."

"Well, he did entertain the idea of you being First Mate, didn't he?"

She had figured that word had spread of the conversation she had with
him. "He did, but, so what? The First Mate is subordinate to the
captain. I'd be looking up to *him*. And I still do."

"True as true north, Lady, I'm not sure if he actually saw things that
way. Have you considered that maybe, just maybe, he saw a spark in
you? And *that* is what led to the First Mate thing?"

Fenicia put up a leg on the rock and rested her face on her knee.
"Impossible."

"You don't even know what's possible." Zephyr's uncharacteristically
straightforward statement sank in Fenicias's heart like an anchor.

"I suppose I don't."
