CHAPTER 9

The next few days were as normal as the crew could hope. Starry Vine
made pretty good time, her crew were (mostly) content, the wind was
more of a help than a hindrance, the weather fared remarkably well,
and she didn't run into any more insane orca-squid machines. Smooth
sailing, overall.

She was expected to come within sights of the Ucrostica
sub-archipelago in the morning, just in time for lunch, according to
Netto's calculations. Even though they had zero intention to drop
anchor at the main Ucrostican settlement, Kriyata Harbor, the plan
nevertheless called for replacing the wolfskull standard with
something more benign, to minimize suspicion as they passed by. The
standard would go back up again when Starry Vine would dock in a
hidden cove several miles north and inland of Kriyata Harbor. The
purpose of staying there was to formulate a proper plan for the real
mission. Someone friendly in the area was bound to have a newer,
better map of the less-explored regions near the Storm Wall,
considering how The Temple of the Craft had recently become a
hot-button topic among the seafaring community. Stratus already had a
few names in mind. The Starry Vine crew would carefully review this
new information, compare and contrast it with their current
intelligence, then -- finally -- strike.

It was foolproof.

The Harbor was situated on the eastern shore of the Ucrostican Isle of
Kriyata. The rugged, mountainous terrain of the island seemed regal in
the summertime, with verdant fields of grass and wildflowers that were
visible even from miles away. Justinienne could appreciate them with
the naked eye from her perch in the crow's nest, thanks to the deep,
lush colors and the good visibility. The wolfskull standard squeaked
downwards, which caught her off-guard, despite her knowing it to be
part of The Plan. Only a minute later, the friendly, multi-starred
Port Sokuit flag lumbered into its place.

The southern edge of Kriyata Harbor came into view with the help of
Justinienne's spyglass. She gave the sign to the crew on deck to begin
turning northeast. The sails were folded in tightly to capture the
wind at the correct angle, and indeed, Starry Vine was put back on
course. Navigating through the channel past Kriyata Harbor was not the
hard part -- the hard part was finding the secret inland cove.
Justinienne had been there once before. Fenicia and Zephyr, at least
once. Nimbus, never. Stratus and Netto, dozens of times, but it had
been at least a decade, so they relied upon the expertise of a
crewmate donkey named Willora, who was born on the island not far from
the hideout. In fact, she was named after the island's wildflowers.
Kriyata's mountains were indeed pretty, but the complicated geography
of highlands and lowlands meant places tended to be hidden. A beast
could be only a few hundred paces away from another and never know it,
each one nestled securely in their own private valley.

The otter took another look through the varnished sablewood spyglass.
She noticed a peculiar structure jutting out of a miniscule,
uninhabited island that was little more than just a big rock. The
structure had to have been built with an animal's paws -- nature could
not have forged something so perfectly straight -- but it seemed to
serve no purpose, either. A leftover beam from an abandoned house's
frame, perhaps. It seemed harmless and it certainly wasn't the way of
the Galleon, so Justinienne didn't mention it to anyone.

Willora's knowledge was indispensable. Ignoring the awkward appearance
of a seafaring ship on a river -- headed *upriver*, even -- it was
smooth sailing through the otherwise complicated delta north of
Kriyata Harbor, and she confirmed the correct path through the maze of
tributaries. The river currents were not at all what one would expect.
It really did seem like they cheated physics as they navigated towards
the Labyrinth Canyons of northeastern Kriya. Netto furiously scribbled
as much of Willora's wisdom as he could with his trusty albatross
quill.

Starry Vine's sails were useless in the canyon, so she had to be
controlled with the rudder. Fenicia stood at the wheel, paws gripping
it tightly. The turns were tight, but despite Starry Vine's size, she
could squeeze around them effortlessly like a strangleroot plant. The
only reason why Stratus even considered the plan in the first place is
because he had firsthoof experience which proved she could, in fact,
fit. Stratus, Nimbus and Willora were close at paw. It was perfectly
midday, but Starry Vine suddenly was encapsulated fully under the
shadow of the skyscraping canyon walls. Lani reacted to the solar
eclipse, squawking mildly, in confusion, but the crew understood this
is what it took to make an entire barque vanish.

"Hush, little one," Willora cooed to the bird. "Don't wanna make us
any more conspicuous than we need to be..." She studied the canyon's
crevice above them, the sky visible only within the shape of a torn
piece of parchment.

But Zephyr was the only one looking astern as well as skyward. He
figured someone ought to, since the tight, serpentine path of the
waterway meant the surroundings could seem dramatically different
depending on whether you were looking upriver or down. That's when he
spotted an unexpected structure on the edge of one cliff: a tall,
freestanding metallic boom heavily leaning to one side. Zephyr figured
that it ought to have been perfectly upright, but even then, its
reason for being there did not make much sense. On the other paw, it
made perfect sense to not routinely maintain any structure in such an
impossible, rough spot like way up there. He drew his own spyglass to
learn more, but as he had figured, a close-up did not reveal anything
new.

So, he approached the navigating crew by the wheel. "Willora, matey--"

"Not now, Zephyr, we are trying to concentrate," she whispered.

"I'm sorry. It'll be quick. You just gotta see this. Up there." He put
the spyglass in her hoof and pointed behind her. "What is that?"

She peered through the spyglass, then studied it with the naked eye,
then looked through the glass again. "What *is* that?" she echoed.
"That's new. It's not from here, but it doesn't seem like a big deal,
either."

"Allow me!" Netto insisted, and Willora gave him the glass. "I'll say,
Zephyr, good eye! But I think Willora is right. Looks just like a
busted flagpole without a flag."

Fenicia's ears turned red hot. "I spotted something just like that the
other day," she said. "Strangleroot."

Zephyr's face said "Aha!" and a candle was lit above his head. His
tail wagged excitedly.

Captain Stratus' name evoked the clouds, but as always, he was the
most grounded. "Not every flagpole needs a flag at all times," he
reminded them. The candle was snuffed out.

Fenicia had her attention up above. There was a large tree at the
cliff's edge...

"But isn't it interesting that they weren't there before this voyage?"
Nimbus proffered, despite nobeast soliciting his opinion.

"Maybe we just never noticed them before," Stratus countered, pipe in
hoof. "Anyway, let us not waste time thinking about flagpoles. We need
to focus on not crashing Starry Vine into the--!!"

"Get down!!" Before he could finish his sentence, Fenicia had rushed
and tackled the captain without warning. Both of them slammed the deck
muzzle-first, sliding several paws' length across the floor, narrowly
dodging the bullet. Lani squawked. The blast of the musket rang out
all across the canyon, echoing deeply like church bells and thunder,
and sending every eagle, gull and crow nestled in the cliff's walls
scattering wildly. Every hoof and paw on deck drew their weapons
immediately. Even Netto exchanged his venerable quill for a sword he
apparently always carried. Shots were returned upward, to the
formidable oak tree which miraculously lived on the cliff's edge, but
the storm of birds got in the way.

"By the abyss! We're sitting ducks!" Stratus exclaimed into the
floorboards. Fenicia got off of him quickly, and helped him back on
his hooves. This wasn't good. Starry Vine needed to be gently guided
through the winding river to avoid the rocky walls of the ravine, but
also she needed to deal with *this* -- a threat from above, of all
places!

The flurry of birds still startled from the initial gunshot provided
some sort of cover. But it was obvious that the assailant had their
eyes set on the captain, who was rushing belowdecks with Fenicia and
Netto. Another shot screeched, boomed and reverberated across the
gorge. Just as the previous, this shot was too close for comfort,
whizzing right beside Stratus' ear.  With a determined look on his
face, he returned two random shots towards the tree, one from each
pistol he held in each hoof, before descending to safety. But only a
moment later did a blast emanate from the crow's nest.

The crew looked up. A beat later, a limp, cloaked figure flopped out
of the tree and fell over the cliff's edge, plummeting into the river
with a dense splash. Mates witnessed Nimbus -- the new recruit --
throwing off his jacket, tying it about his waist and descending the
rope ladder from the crow's nest. The musket-wielding marauder would
have had the higher ground no matter what, but Nimbus' actions didn't
*not* make sense: he simply matched them as much as he could. His plan
was plainly obvious, so risky as to be stupid, and brilliant all at
the same time. The rough sketches of a hero. Audacious. He had
successfully taken advantage of the fact the would-be assassin was too
focused on the single target, tunnel vision through the barrel of
their musket. And now that threat was gone forever.

Many mates cheered when Nimbus finally set his hoof back on the deck.
Lani bobbed her head joyfully. The ram smirked proudly, with hooves
firmly on his hips. This time, he was right.

But not everybeast had seen the brave act.

Where was the captain?

Fenicia appeared in the threshold which led belowdecks, behind all the
other mates. It was the last face he wanted to see -- Nimbus wanted to
lavishly relax on the quilt of praise his crewmates were stitching for
him -- but he couldn't ignore the expression her face. Or the light
smattering of blood on her vest. One by one, the crewmates turned
around to see what Nimbus was staring at. It was the first time that
he, and Zephyr, and Justinienne, and everyone else, had ever seen
anything like it.

Fenicia was scared.

In the distance, Nimbus desperately tried to understand what in The
Hurricane's Eye could possibly spook the legendary Ruby-Eye herself.
He got no such answer. She only furrowed her brow and bit her bottom
lip. Slowly -- so slow that nobeast could notice, not even Fenicia --
her tail creeped between her legs.

Then realization tore across Nimbus like a shipwreck.

He swam through the sea of crewmates, shoving animals out of the way
path as he paddled to the scene. Fenicia gingerly pawed back to the
wheel. Her station.

In the office, Nimbus gazed upon Netto, a solemn look on his face that
was difficult to decipher because his spectacles were cracked. He was
purposefully controlling his breathing. On the floor, two cloaked
figures just like the one Nimbus took out lay in a puddle of blood,
slashed across the chest. The ferret and the mouse each wore an
elaborate, aggressive necklace of sharpened shark's teeth. And Nimbus'
captain was seated at his desk, face flat against the ripped map of
Azuaveria, a shell-carved knife loosely gripped in his hoof, a
strangleroot vine hastily knotted around his throat.
