CHAPTER 2

Like Captain Stratus, the new recruit was also a ram. From a distance, 
one could mistake the black splotch on his face as an eyepatch over 
his right eye, but no, it was just the irregular, marbled pattern that 
covered his skin. His horns had fully grown in -- he was certainly no 
longer a kid -- but they contrasted with his youthful face. Bruises, 
scars and even missing limbs were plentiful among Starry Vine's crew, 
but this sheep's skin saw barely a scratch, were you to shear the wool 
away. Well, if a sea-beast hadn't suffered their inaugural wound yet, 
then it would only be a matter of time.

The new crewmate was dressed rather smartly, his wool recently sheared
into a popular (er, landlubber) style which emphasized his chest and
upper arms. A wristwatch hugged his left wrist, secured in place with
a sun-treated pythonskin strap. Even his hat was fashionable, a black
tricorne with holes specially cut out to accommodate the horns. As he
walked up the gangplank, the shirtless rabbit could tell at sight that
the hat had not been broken in -- it lacked the crusty appearance
caused by years of seawater and sweat-salt.

"Nice hat," the rabbit observed. He was busy sawing off the excess 
portion of the shoddily improvised gangplank.

"Nice shirt." The ram tipped his hat in a quasi-gentlemanbeastly 
fashion, but then was visibly taken aback when the rabbit asked: "Are 
you sure you're in the right place?"

A beat. "Uh, I think I know where I'm supposed to be," the ram said 
without the slightest touch of doubt.

There was a saying in Azuaveria: "You get miffed, I get miffed." It 
perfectly described the situation.

"Well, sorry," the rabbit retorted, and resumed with his sawing. 

But the ram was not quite finished. "Do you know where I might find 
the captain?"

The rabbit did not look up. "Dunno, I'd bet he's prolly in the 
captain's quarters." The saw got jammed in the plank and had to be 
pried out. "But wouldn't you rather speak with the quartermaster 
instead?"

The ram was flabbergasted. "No, I do believe that I need to speak 
with the captain."

You get miffed, I get miffed.

The rabbit still did not look up, but he began to frown. "If you 
really do be our new mate, then the captain would tell you the first 
thing to do is check in with the quartermaster -- get officially 
registered in the company charter and all that."

"We'll see."

The rabbit finally liberated the saw. He noticed out of the corner of 
his eye that the sheep was checking the time with his watch. "That 
thing's gonna rust," he warned.

The ram had enough, and proceeded up the gangplank along with his 
luggage. "The Galleon herself," he marveled.

Lani had decided to take residence upon Netto's shoulder, but he did 
not seem to notice. The raccoon could still be seen with his clipboard 
and quill, itemizing Fenicia's loot splayed out on the deck. Lani 
studied Netto's papers over his shoulder, but it was unclear if Lani 
understood anything he was writing down. Red trucos were demonstrably 
smart birds, but who could say where the limits of their intelligence 
truly lay. Netto continued to focus intently on his records when Lani 
turned her little head and squawked at the unfamiliar ram, who 
seemingly appeared from nowhere. She extended her wings, excited and 
scared -- but mostly excited, as any of the crew would insist.

"Yes, Lani, what is it?" Netto asked in a tone that sounded more 
perturbed than he really was. Upon committing the last tally to paper, 
he looked up and found the ram, who was staring straight at the bird. 
"You must be the new crewmate!" he called. He pushed on his spectacles 
and turned his attention to the bird. "It's okay, Lani," he cooed, 
"he's a friend. A very landlubber-looking friend."

"That's right," the ram replied. "I am looking for the captain."

"I'm sure you are. But keep your crickets in your pocket, mate! Let's 
get you recorded in the registrar, first."

The ram became crestfallen. "Will it take long?"

"No sir, for I am the quartermaster! Netto is my name, pleased to meet
you. Now, come here." Netto grabbed the nearest barrel as the ram
approached. He took the pot of squid ink out of his shirt pocket,
unscrewed the cap and placed it on the newly improvised table. Lani
leapt from Netto's shoulder and commenced her little parade on the
barrel.

"Do you have your invitation?" Netto inquired.

"Obviously." The sheep reached into his pocket and produced an 
envelope. It was sealed with a sea-foam green wax seal, embossed with 
a figure that resembled a leafy vine.

"You haven't opened it yet," Netto noticed.

"I didn't need to."

Netto raised an eyebrow well above the top edge of his glasses. "Ah, 
er, well, can you open it for me, please?"

The ram rolled his eyes and broke the seal. He began lazily reading 
the letter: "You are cordially invited to climb the Starry Vine with 
the famous band of seafaring animals. An exciting journey awaits, your 
brothers and sisters in the crew will become your new family, blah 
blah blah..."

The letter listlessly fell from his hoof onto the table. Lani 
squawked. Netto picked it up and inspected it. "Signed... Captain 
Stratus Torrian himself!"

The ram raised an eyebrow of his own, and smirked.

"It is an honor, and relatively rare, to have been recommended by 
Stratus of all beasts to join our ranks -- considering that *any* mate 
in good standing is eligible to send an invitation," Netto said 
primarily to himself. He shrugged and switched gears. "Doesn't matter, 
we still have to keep the books on you just like anybody else." He 
flipped to a specific page in his clipboard and withdrew his frayed 
quill from behind his ear. It was a form, with plenty of blanks that 
demanded filling in. Netto filled in some basic information 
automatically, including the date, which the ram noticed was not 
written according to the Waterwheel Revolution's calendar.

"First things first. Name?"

"Nimbus Torrian."

"Oh, ah, I guess that explains it! I thought you looked like Stratus."

"I sure hope so. He is my uncle."
