CHAPTER 4

Strictly in terms of maps and compasses and sextants and so on, the
path which Starry Vine took out of Port Sokuit was not optimal. If she
didn't have anything to hide, then it would have made sense to
straddle the southern coast of the Big Island all the way to its
southwestern corner, and then head north-northwest towards the
Ucrostican Channel. But the truth was that she did, in fact, have
something very important to hide. It was a safety precaution, plain
and simple. The alternative would have meant a swift and painful
suicide for the beautiful barque *and* her entire crew. What were they
supposed to do? Blow their cover to smithereens?

Fenicia did not appreciate that she had to live a double life. The two
sides of the coin could not have been more distant from one another:
heads, being herself with her chums on the open sea without
consequence; tails, shrouding her true colors on land while dreading
the possibility a vigilante would jump around a street corner and kill
her -- or worse. Regardless, those were the cards she was dealt, and
she came to distantly tolerate the conditions of her existence.

But ya gotta admit, Fenicia would tell herself while holding a tankard
of nectar-ale, the pirate thing's pretty cool.

The stars were big and bold when night fell. The majority of the crew
stayed on deck for much longer than they needed to, simply to admire
the stars. There was hardly an opportunity to do so while they were
forced to stay in Port Sokuit, the big city, whose gaslamps and
harbor-lanterns and lighthouses (real lighthouses) burned brightly all
the way till dawn. The waxing gibbous moon was bright enough to cast
faint shadows of the ship's rigging and her crew. It even illuminated
the wolfskull flag.

"Cheers, gang," Fenicia declared. Mugs clunked. Some of Juistinielle's
liquid gold spilled onto her vest, which only caused her and Zephyr to
laugh. One of the crewmates, a musically gifted badger, filled the air
with a catchy song on his accordion. Lani bopped her head in rhythm.
She looked dumb, but she was clearly having fun.

After a swig of nectar-ale, Justinielle addressed Fenicia. "Lemme
guess. You had to travel far and wide to find this fine ale on your
Noble Shopping Quest, and that's why you had to *abandon* me and my
mates every morning while we were chained to the mainland."

Zephyr chuckled like a puppy. Fenicia had to respond: "Clam it now,
Jay. Before it's too late. I hereby declare nobeast is allowed to
mention that Quest, under penalty of walking the plank. Also, you
lie." She sounded serious, but the collie and the otter understood her
sarcasm. She didn't even have the authority to make animals walk the
plank, anyway. "Seriously, I have no idea where this keg came from.
It's pretty good though." The otter nodded vigorously. The golden
retriever opened the tap and helped herself to another half-tankard.

Zephyr caught Justinielle's attention. "We saw you installing the
cannon with the new mate. You know the captain's his uncle, right?"

"Aye, Zeffie, cap'n introduced him to me as such. He looks just like
him too. Little ram and I kept it professional, we really only talked
about the cannon." She took a sip. "He seemed like... like something
was bothering him, could you tell?"

"A thousand times, aye," Zephyr concurred immediately.

Fenicia took a slow sip and contemplated the answer while Justinielle
and Zephyr awaited her response. She thought about his smirk during
the paw-shake, and his disdain for the advice about his wristwatch.
And how did he know about the Ruby-Eye thing?! "He's for sure got a
crab nipping at his tail or something."

"Well, maybe we can help him clean his tail, then," the otter
suggested. "Get rid of the fleas and the ticks while we're at it,
too."

Despite the awkward introduction, the trio decided they had nothing to
lose. The question was: where *was* Nimbus? They couldn't find him
anywhere on deck, when suddenly Zephyr had the "genius idea"
(Justinielle's words) to ask his uncle. Unfortunately, Captain Stratus
didn't know either.

The mates turned their search belowdecks. Their investigation came to
a close when they found the light of a lantern spilling out of Nimbus'
designated sleeping area.

The muffled sounds of the badger's accordion managed to slip in,
occasionally interrupted with the moaning and groaning of the ship's
frame. The light of the moon shone weakly through the porthole. And
the three animals found him staring vacantly at his suitcase, which
lay open on his cot beside his tricorne.

"Ahoy, matey, there's a party going on," Justinielle ventured.

"I know."

"They rolled out a big keg. Want some nectar-ale?" Zephyr offered. He
had brought an extra mug.

"No thank you, I don't drink."

Zephyr shrugged. Justinielle motioned for him to give it to her
instead. Meanwhile, Fenicia noticed the suitcase contained a crisp,
well-pressed Navy uniform.

"That's not gonna work here," Fenicia stated.

"You think I don't know that?!" Nimbus growled, turning towards her.
"Wasting space in my suitcase. It was daft of me to bring it. Go on,
say it."

"It was daft of you to bring it," Zephyr bellowed. Justinielle jabbed
an elbow into his gut. Nimbus rolled his eyes.

Fenicia shook her head softly. "I'm not gonna say that. Surely you
brought other clothes."

"Yes, I do believe so," Nimbus declared.

"Worst case scenario, you just borrow someone else's. It's no big
deal, surely one of the other mate is your size," the otter said.
Nimbus grimaced.

"Well, anyway, we just wanted to say there's a party up there and we'd
like to have you," said Zephyr.

"Just find us, we'll have some fun," Justinielle added.

Nimbus turned toward Fenicia. She just raised her eyebrows. After a
beat, Nimbus told them he would "think about it." The trio understood
his meaning and proceeded back upstairs. But Fenicia stayed behind,
and popped her head back into Nimbus' room around the doorjamb.

"Hey."

"What?!" Nimbus was clearly aggravated.

A small, brightly-colored object followed a parabolic trajectory
straight for Nimbus' chest. He caught it without any trouble. He
furrowed his brow and studied the little projectile in his hoof: a
clementine. Confused, he looked up at Fenicia, who said simply:
"Orange juice," then retracted her head.

Nimbus would appear only a few minutes later. Several crewmates saw
him climb up the steps, cheering and raising their tankards in
congratulations. Nimbus smirked and held up his orange juice in reply.
Zephyr and Justinielle noticed the fruit, then turned to Fenicia, who
wordlessly pretended she didn't know what was going on.

Nimbus peered overboard.

"The animal of the hour," Justinielle remarked.

"Flattery won't get you anywhere," Nimbus said, as if quoting
someone, and faced the group.

"Relax, mate. We just wanna get to know you better. Since we'll be
living with you for a while," Zephyr explained.

"And *I* will be living with *you*," Nimbus stated almost
unnecessarily.

"So, what's up with that uniform? Did they throw you out or
something?" the otter asked.

"Honorably discharged," Nimbus emphasized. "Clearly you didn't notice
the decorations on the shirt lapel, or the meaning of the tricorne."

"No, why would we?" Zephyr asked, genuinely curious. From his
perspective, the only thing that mattered was: a uniform like that
was distinctly, ah, *anti-buccaneer.*

"...Fair enough." He peered overboard and glanced at the water once
more.

Fenicia was trying to make sense of this. Clearly, the ram was an able
seabeast. His uniform did not seem nearly as fancy, or as decorated,
as other ones she had seen before, so he likely wasn't a high-ranking
official when he left the Navy. He had to have quit on his own terms,
because the discharge was honorable; if it were dishonorable, he
probably wouldn't be allowed to keep the uniform or its decorations.
He must have wanted to continue life at sea, otherwise he would not
have accepted his uncle's invitation to the Starry Vine. And the
pirate's life is objectively more fun than the soldier's. So, what's
the crab nipping at his tail?

"Why does the idea of being a pirate make you uncomfortable?" Fenicia
blurted.

Nimbus' hoof froze, holding the clementine mid-peel. The ram, the
collie and the otter all looked at her strangely. Fenicia knew she was
supposed to feel embarrassed and stupid at this moment, yet, she
didn't.

Nimbus shifted to face her. "You just made a *lot* of assumptions
there, girlie."

"Ah, uh, you don't need to answer that question if you don't want to,
Fenicia can be really blunt sometimes... you get used to it!"
Justinielle tried. But she grimaced anyway.

"You'd admit it's quite the formidable change, from Navy-beast to
*privateer*, wouldn't you? It would take considerable time to make the
adjustment." Nimbus challenged.

Fenicia looked sideways. "Yes, it would."

"So please grant me that time, okay?"

Fenicia's eyes averted Nimbus' even more. "Alright. Sorry."

But Nimbus was already distracted by the water yet again. Without
warning, he flung his coat wide open, forcefully drew his flintlock
pistol and aimed it overboard, close to Starry Vine's frame.

"What's gotten into ya, mate?!" Zephyr exclaimed. He reflexively drew
his own pistol, too, but didn't know what to do with it.

"Something's down there," Nimbus insisted through gritted teeth.

Justinielle yelled at everyone, but to the musician badger especially,
to keep quiet. Lani squawked. The party grinded to a halt as the
crew's attention was directed starboard. Stratus hustled directly to
the action. Hushes and murmurs fell upon the entire crew. Several
animals cautiously drew their weapons.

A dozen mates had a direct line of sight overboard at whatever Nimbus
was looking at. It was as still as it could be on the open ocean while
traveling at a few knots. The clatter and rustling of chains and
tackle. The wolfskull standard flapping in short gusts of wind.
Displaced water running astern in the ship's wake.

Nothing seemed out of the ordinary.

"Nimbus," the captain said gently into his nephew's ear, "What did you
see?"

Fenicia, whose paw was on her pistol which still was not drawn, saw
Nimbus' firing arm faltering. His pistol was the standard-issue
palmwood variety they always seemed to give to Navy-beasts. "I'm not
sure. It sounded like something was *climbing*. Up the wall."

"So you didn't *see* anything."

Nimbus' arm started to go limp. "...No, sir."

Stratus sighed. He turned around and told the crew to remain at ease.
He didn't like to use the term "false alarm," because the initial, gut
feeling is always genuine, and he explained that to everybeast
present. But he did make the call that everything was safe, and
encouraged everyone to continue the festivities. Slowly, the jolly
atmosphere faded into the foreground: the music, the laughter, the
conversation, the nectar-ale. Zephyr, Justinielle and Fenicia hadn't
made up their minds about what just happened.

Without a word, Nimbus turned and headed back belowdecks, coattails
flapping heavily behind him, his shaking hoof still gripping the
pistol.
