CHAPTER 3

Fenicia's floppy ears were listening when Nimbus announced his 
relationship to Captain Stratus. Why didn't the captain prepare her, 
or even Netto, for this news? Maybe he wanted to make sure no one 
would judge him and his choices. After all, it was entirely within his 
right to invite anyone he saw fit. Therefore, the Captain must have 
found Nimbus, well, fit. Fit for the task. Maybe the Captain was 
lonely, and missed having his family with him, since he was out at sea 
for the majority of the year. Or maybe the captain had never met his 
nephew before, and somehow figured that this would be a good time? 
That didn't make sense. Or maybe the captain was just deluded. Fenicia 
didn't want to think about it any more than she had to. Only one way 
to find out.

Just gotta ask the right animals the right questions.

"Ahoy. He's your uncle, is he?" Fenicia called.

"I think that is what I said," Nimbus growled.

He turned and found the golden retriever leaning against the other 
mast, arms folded. Her fur, and especially her tail, seemed kinda 
mangy, frayed, weathered. Nimbus noticed her rather pronounced 
underbite, which had become invisible to the rest of the crew, who had 
grown accustomed to it. "Will that be a problem?" he demanded.

"Naw, actually, that is pretty cool. Pretty cool." Nimbus' face 
clearly indicated that he did not know how to decipher her plain, 
monotone manner of speaking -- but she did, in fact, find it cool. 
"He's down below, by the way, I just spoke with him." Then she walked 
towards him and stuck out her paw. "Fenicia."

With a smirk, Nimbus took her paw and shook it with his hoof.

"Fenicia is one of our most capable paws on deck! But unfortunately," 
Netto interjected, "we need to focus on properly recording Mr. 
Torrian's information into the charter. Here, make sure these are 
taken care of." Netto took one of the sheets of paper from his 
clipboard and gave it to Fenicia.

"Aye," Fenicia said, and stepped aside to study the list. Most of the 
list was already crossed out. Nimbus studied her.

Their voices diminished as she walked to the other side of the ship.

"Age?"

"Twenty-seven."

"...place of birth...?"

"...Port Sokuit General Hospital..."

"..."

Fenicia spotted Zephyr admiring the view over the starboard edge,
looking southward. His eyes were closed, partly to protect his eyes
from the glare of the sunlight reflecting on the ocean, but mostly to
make this moment a little more quiet, as serene has he could manage.
He took a deep breath of the salty air. The wind caused his fur to
sway gently, like leaves still falling from a tree, avoiding the
ground for seemingly forever. He looked pawsome.

Of course, Fenicia had to be the one to ruin the collie's solace. 
"Hey, Champ," she said. "Hate to bother you."

"No problemo, Lady." Fenicia was by no means the only woman on board, 
but somehow she got the nickname "Lady." She never objected, though.

"Netto's checklist says we're swapping out *that* cannon, finally.
Gonna need a crank-crane to hoist it outta here. Port authority's
coming any minute. Wanna help?"

*That* cannon. Everybeast knew the one. The one that, uh, shall we 
say, *backfired.*

"By the Maker, yes!" Zephyr was happy to abandon his quiet post if 
meant getting rid of *that* thing.

The crank-crane operators, two plucky squirrels each sporting a helmet 
and goggles, coordinated with Fenicia and Zephyr to devise the plan of 
attack to safely remove *that* miscreant cannon. It could no longer be 
wheeled out of position because of the... backfiring... so it was 
decided it'd be easiest to drop several lines from the crane, tie it 
up, then clear a pathway such that no paws nor hooves on deck would 
get crushed were the thing to fall as it left the ship. The squirrels 
got to work while the dogs hashed out which hitches would work best, 
and where to hitch it.

Port Sokuit's crank-cranes were large, powerful and renowned across 
the entire Archipelago. They had to be -- Sokuit was by far the most 
important harbor of the south. A real marvel of engineering. But they 
were purely mechanical, and often slow, and would remain that way for 
another hundred years when electrifying the winches would finally 
become practical. As they waited for the ropes to descend, Fenicia and 
Zephyr had another moment to chat.

"Have you met the new mate?" Fenicia asked.

"No, ma'am, but I did hear a little bit of the conversation he had 
with The Shirtless One."

"What'd you think?"

"He was kinda rude and he really, *really* wanted to meet Stratus."

"Well, it makes sense, because, guess what, he's his nephew."

Zephyr blinked and scratched behind his ear. "Wow, really?"

"Would I lie about something like that?" Fenicia asked as the two kept 
an eye on the crane's arm swinging above. Sunlight glistened off of 
the bright red metal. It looked like a forceful spurt of crimson paint 
had spilled across the clouds. It creaked a little, but only a little, 
for the mechanical components were always kept in excellent condition.

"I'm not sure what to think of that," Zephyr admitted.

"Me neither."

The crew of Starry Vine was certainly like a family, but having an 
actual relative on board seemed... wrong. But it technically wasn't 
wrong at all. Just unexpected.

Zephyr gave the signal to indicate to the crane operators that he
agreed the crane was in a good position. Then the ropes began to
descend.

"What'd you do while Starry Vine was getting repaired? Where did you 
stay?" Zephyr wondered as he began tying a Baharitani hitch.

It took a while for Fenicia to respond, not because she was also tying
knots, but because it was the kind of question hardly ever asked of
her. Animals tended to fear Fenicia, or at least were wary of her
unadorned manner of speaking. "Uh, well, I stayed with Justinielle and
her family, they live in town."

"Oooo," Zephyr sang, insinuating something.

"Clam it. It's not like that. We hardly saw each other, anyway. She 
was working on the ship the whole time."

"Okay, fair nuff. What else?"

Was there even anything more to say, really? Honestly?

"... I visited The Lighthouse one night."

"Just a lighthouse?"

"No, *The* Lighthouse. It's not actually a lighthouse. It's a, er..."

The collie could hardly believe it. Lady Fenicia, the fearless and
capable veteran of the Starry Vine, the straightest talker ever known
to Azuaveria, tripping over her own words like an untied boot? Fish
may as well be flying in the sky.

"Up above!" Fenicia proclaimed to every paw on deck. Everybeast took
notice of *that* cannon hoisted above them. Several crewmates
applauded its departure. Someone shouted "Good riddance!" Lani decided
to perch on top of the cannon and cruise along for the ride, and she
of course squawked in amusement, the long tail feather swaying behind
her. Netto and Nimbus had to move their barrel-table aside in order to
make a clear path.

"You're changing the subject, Lady!" Zephyr teased.

"Yes, I am," Fenicia stated with her trademark finality.

The Captain himself arose from belowdecks, surely to witness for
himself what all the commotion was about. But, more importantly, he
had to welcome the newest mate. Fenicia and Zephyr gave each other a
quizzical look when they noticed Nimbus instinctually giving a sort of
Navy-esque salute, but Stratus' body language said "No," and
counter-offered his nephew a genuine, hearty hug. The horns of the two
rams thudded against each other, but they were used to that sort of
thing.

"They seem to get along, at least," Zephyr remarked. Fenicia nodded.

Within a few minutes, Nimbus, Stratus and Justinielle the otter rolled
the new, properly behaving cannon up the gangplank and guided it to
where *that* cannon once stayed. The two dogs moved aside for its
arrival.

"Hey, Lady," Zephyr said. "Wanted to ask. Where did you get that
nectarine?"

"Fruit stand," she said simply. "Where else?"

-----

Preparations were complete. Starry Vine was given a fresh coat of
paint, her keel fully repaired, *that* cannon gone for good, all
supplies restocked and accounted for, all paws and hooves on deck, the
new mate fully committed to the company charter, and a voyage's worth
of seed in store for everyone's favorite red truco.

And, most importantly: the letter of marque signed and notarized.

Stratus, the classical image of the captain complete with corn-cob
pipe, drew everyone's attention to the letter. Tucked within its
original envelope, he grasped it firmly in his hoof and gave a
determined, reassuring smile. He looked quite proud and optimistic
about this voyage. This gesture alone put a majority of the crew,
forty strong, at ease.

It was afternoon, the sun just beginning its descent, and the wind was
beginning to pick up -- another good sign. The envelope wanted to ride
the wind and escape the captain's grip, but of course he would not
allow that.

"I have every reassurance that we will be able to complete our
mission,"  Stratus announced to the crewmates, who were sitting in a
semicircle around him. "Listen up, sealubbers. We are to travel to
some seldom-seen waters northwest of Ucrostica, fairly near the Storm
Wall, and recover an ancient relic believed to be hidden in what
archaeologists call 'The Temple of the Craft.' But we must be careful,
because there's been a lot of buzz about this Temple, so we must
assume that even the blasted Sharktooth and his crew already know
about it. Can't say I didn't warn you.

"But don't you lads and lasses worry. I have a very good feeling about
this. We were able to negotiate a lucrative deal with a formidable
benefactor. It is living proof, a testament to our reputation and the
true value of our work. We were able to restore the Starry Vine back
to her honest, legitimate glory, thanks to your hard work. Doesn't she
look beautiful? I could kiss her." The crew laughed, but he wasn't
wrong. She did genuinely look really good. "The seas of Azuaveria are
not prepared to handle a vessel as gorgeous as this and a crew as
sharp as you lot. Did you know that? The Hurricane's Eye is ours!"

The crew was starting to get amped.

"So, then. Mateys! Who's ready to go to Ucrostica?!" Stratus raised
his fist, bearing the crushed envelope. The crew stood up, cheered and
applauded. Stratus had to yell over the raucous excitement: "To your
stations! We set sail immediately!"

Every paw and every hoof stood at their post. The Galleon was unmoored
from the dock's bollards and her sails were unfurled. She looked so
gallant. Stratus took the wheel. Lani took his shoulder. The crew was
able to rotate the ship southward, directly away from Port Sokuit.  A
flock of seagulls wished all the mates goodbye as they circled over
the crow's nest. The captain had a good feeling, so Fenicia did, too,
for she had no reason to doubt him.

Fenicia attended to the stays of the foremost mast. It was the best
part of any ship, she thought -- the bow, rather -- because when you
stood there and faced forward, it meant that your eyes were the ship's
eyes. It meant that the currents and the waves and the wind the
compass of your soul were all perfectly aligned, running downwind, an
utterly unobstructed and absolutely liberated state of being. Fenicia
knew this, and therefore, she knew precisely what was bliss.

Once Starry Vine was about three or four nautical miles south of the
harbor, just invisible to any naked eyes from the pier of Port Sokuit,
Stratus approached his nephew, who was standing near the main-mast.
The rest of the crew knew what was about to happen, and focused on the
interaction.

"Nimbus, I have a task for you. A small thing, but it is an honored
tradition aboard Starry Vine."

"Of course."

"You are the newest crewmate, therefore, you have the privilege to
raise our *true flag.*" Quartermaster Netto, who was standing beside
the captain, opened the fairly large box he was holding. Stratus
instructed: "Bring down those colors and put this one up instead."

Justinielle was just about done admiring the view from the crow's
nest, but the pulleys beside her were being tugged on. The friendly
Port Sokuit flag with the multicolored stars was being lowered. And
taking its place, slowly rising -- limp at first, but waving
insidiously once the wind took hold -- was the black-and-white flag of
a junglefowl's skeleton.
