CHAPTER 1

A seagull strutting down a cobblestone waterfront street of Port 
Sokuit stopped mid-strut when it discovered its own reflection in a 
shallow puddle. It could see the early afternoon cyan sky, the 
tremendous white clouds, one of the port's signature crank-cranes and 
the seagull's own stupid face clearly on the surface of the water. It 
tilted its head, as if studying the unexpectedly beautiful image. But 
of course this was the exact moment when Fenicia's paw would step 
directly into the puddle, which splashed on the poor bird, who 
protested and angrily flew away along with its flock.

It was inevitable. Fenicia was carrying an oversized knapsack and two 
more large duffel bags with an awkward weight distribution, and 
couldn't help but get her Golden Retriever paws wet as she tried to 
step around the burly black bear walking slowly in front of her.
 
"Sorry, coming through!" Fenicia called over her shoulder.

"Hrmph," the bear rumbled.

Fenicia didn't need to walk as quickly as she was, considering the 
burden she was carrying, and also since she was already turning onto 
the pier where Starry Vine was berthed. She was old but 
well-maintained, like how a tree seems to grow more beautiful with 
age, or an older relative who manages to stay hip and cool with the 
pups. She was jokingly referred to as "The Galleon" by Fenicia's 
crewmates, for reasons that never made sense to her, but she was by 
all means just a nimble, three-masted barque. Fenicia could see 
clearly even at this distance that Starry Vine's new paint job was 
marvelous, in a splendid white and sea-foam green livery. She had 
wanted to see her being towed back into the water after the keel was 
repaired and the paint had dried, but instead Captain Stratus had put 
her on a "noble shopping quest" which ended up taking longer than 
expected. He was a good guy -- a very good guy, even -- but the idea 
struck her as patently absurd. She did agree that the supplies were 
required, though.

No matter. Fenicia would arrive with some much-needed supplies and 
help get this show back on the water at long last. A couple of 
crewmates, Zephyr the border collie and that rabbit fellow who always 
had his shirt off ("Who was he trying to impress?") had just finished 
laying down the gangplank, ready for the rest of crew to come back on 
board. Fenicia smirked as the plank was lowered immediately in front 
of her, imagining a luxurious carpet had been rolled out before her, 
the Queen of Azuaveria, or something.

"Ahoy, uh, there are already mates on deck, why is the gangplank being 
deployed again now?" Fenicia was genuinely confused.

"We had to repair it," the shirtless rabbit explained.

"Ladies first," Zephyr invited with a bow, and gestured towards the 
walkway. There was a chunk missing from the top, the shape was not 
square and it was clearly fashioned from several different scraps of 
wood. Fenicia didn't know if she wanted to know ask.

She dropped it. "Heh, well aren't you the most polite pirate I ever 
saw," she said flatly. "Be a gentlebeast and carry some of this for 
me, won't you?" She offered him one of the duffel bags before he had a 
chance to say "Aye." The collie was shocked to discover just how heavy 
the bag was, and it thudded onto the wooden pier forcefully. But 
Fenicia was already on deck, her mangy golden tail flitting in her 
wake like a battle flag.

Quartermaster Netto, the bespectacled, portly raccoon, was dutifully 
scrutinizing the sheets of paper attached to his bamboo clipboard, a 
worn-out albatross quill tucked behind his ear. He stuck his tongue 
out as he carefully considered the lengthy checklist and compared it 
against the ship's rigging. His concentration was demolished when 
Fenicia called his name.

"Ah, there you are!" Netto stepped closer as Fenicia dragged her 
remaining duffel bag. Then, with an audible heave, she flung the 
giant knapsack over her shoulder and it crashed onto the deck. The 
knapsack had brushed against her face and displaced the eyepatch 
covering her right eye. As quick as a bullet leaves a flintlock 
pistol, Fenicia ducked behind the knapsack and secured the eyepatch 
back into its proper place, before standing up and finally showing her 
face to Netto.

"Oh, my," he said, once he noticed Zephyr dragging along the other 
bag. Starry Vine was already gently bobbing in the water, but these 
heavy things tipped the scales dramatically.

"A few hundred rounds, several pounds of black powder, fishing tackle, 
a whole bunch of canned insects, poultry, vegetables --" Fenicia 
started to explain, but a curious bird with resplendent magenta 
plumage and an extra-long tail feather decided to flutter and chirp in 
at that moment, and perched on the boom pole nearest Netto. Fenicia 
let out a muted chuckle. "And plenty of seeds for Lani."

"Very well done!" Netto exclaimed. Fenicia wanted to roll her eyes at 
Netto's enthusiasm, but she knew to refrain. He took the quill from 
behind his ear and a portable pot of squid ink out of his shirt 
pocket. "You should go see the captain now, he wanted to have a word 
with you."

"Aye," Fenicia nodded, then turned to Zephyr, who was still catching 
his breath from the heavy bag. "Thanks," she stated simply, and tossed 
him a small clementine she had kept in her pocket as she headed 
towards the captain's office.

Zephyr inspected the little fruit, bewildered, then looked up at 
Netto, who shrugged in an exaggerated manner. He flipped a page on the 
clipboard and began tabulating everything Fenicia had brought. Lani 
squawked.

The moaning and groaning of Starry Vine's wooden planks grew louder as 
Fenicia descended belowdecks. It was a little dark and kinda cramped, 
just the way she liked it. It was the first moment she had to 
appreciate the fact that she was finally, after a couple of weeks 
stuck on land, back at home. No repairs were needed in this part of 
the ship, but the bright image of her new coat of paint was still 
fresh in Fenicia's mind, and it somehow made everything inside feel 
cleaner. Comfier.

The door to the office of Captain Stratus was open and she could see 
the old ram studying a map on the deck and his signature 
corn-cob pipe dangling out of his mouth. He twitched his whiskers and 
turned his attention to a letter in his paw. Despite the door already 
being wide open, Fenicia knocked with a gentle rap of the knuckle. 
"There she is, come on in."

Fenicia stepped inside. Like everywhere else on the ship, Stratus' 
office was diminuitive and packed tightly -- "miniature," by 
landlubber standards. But the many maps and charts pinned onto the 
wall, the countless other documents rolled up on the shelf behind the 
captain, and the cone of sunlight coming through the porthole gave 
this space a certain studious solitude that was rarely seen or felt on 
the high seas. The myriad navigational aids surrounded Stratus where 
he sat, and he could see the entire Azuaverian Archipelago at once, 
like a god.

"Was all that loud clanking and clattering you up there?" Stratus put 
down the letter and bleated a hearty laugh.

Fenicia shot a sideways glance. "Heh, aye, captain. The booty from 
my..." She sighed forcefully. "My noble shopping quest."

"It was very important! Job well done, I'm certain." 

"Captain, may I be perfectly blunt?"

Stratus was genuinely caught off guard. "...Of course." He raised an 
eyebrow and leaned back in his chair. It creaked.

"It was a humiliating task. I'm not some sort of errand girl. And 
before you ask --" Fenicia dug into her pocket and produced what 
seemed to be an elaborate short-hair comb, carved from the shiny side 
of a seashell into an ornate pattern that depicted a lobster's claw. 
It looked like a treasured family heirloom. After flipping it around 
in her paw, Fenicia pushed a small, almost invisible button on the 
side of the comb and -- snap! -- a sharpened, tanto-edged knife blade 
swung out blindingly fast. She had released the spring tension under 
which the pocketknife was held. Then, without words nor emotion, she
plunged the knife into the desk, piercing the map of the Azuaverian 
Archipelago the captain was studying -- and then topped it off with a 
fairly heavy pouch of coins, a satisfying splash of metallic clinks.

Stratus knew that that the comb was actually a knife, and did not 
flinch when the blade flung into position. But he did have to 
concentrate on keeping the corn-cob pipe in his mouth. It was 
dangerously close to just falling out and causing a fire.

"And with your permission," Fenicia stated, sour as lemons, "I'll take 
my leave now."

Stratus carefully took the knife out of his desk and felt the seashell 
carving intently with his hoof. He looked up at her and her glaring 
face, back at the knife, and then back at her once more. "Fenicia, 
take a seat," he said calmly, and offered her the chair opposite him 
across the desk.

After a beat, Fenicia dropped herself into the seat like a sack of 
potatoes. She crossed her legs and folded her arms.

"I want to be clear," Stratus began, intentionally putting down his 
pipe. "I do sincerely apologize for making it feel like I gave you a 
task far below your station. I can understand how... embarrasing that 
could be. Do you forgive me?"

Fenicia winced.

"Now *this* --" Stratus indicated the ornate comb-knife -- "*this* is 
actually incredible. How in The Hurricane's Eye did you manage to find 
it?"

"You just gotta ask the right animals the right questions," Fenicia 
said simply.

"*That* is what I'm talking about!" Stratus announced. "Have you 
considered that you couldn't just do business with *anybeast* for the 
kinds of supplies I set you out for? It's not just gunpowder, it's not 
just fishing tackle. By the Maker, it's not even *just* my long-lost 
blade! You were able to get all of the supplies in time, and 
considering our, ah, reputation, and considering how little money you 
needed to spend..." -- he nodded at the coin pouch -- "...you must 
have asked the right animals the right questions, and also got the 
right answers, too. That's not mere shopping. That's a true talent. 
That's special, you know."

Fenicia looked up. "OK, riddle me this, Captain. You haven't even seen 
the things that I bought. I could have been lying to you this whole 
time about the heavy clattering you heard on deck."

"But I know you haven't," Stratus insisted. "Why do you even say such 
things? Would you in fact lie about something like that?"

Stratus threw a gentle glance that said "I know you." Fenicia frowned 
slightly in reflection.

"You went above and beyond, as always. You need to remember that you 
are invaluable to the safety and well-being of the Starry Vine. And I 
am especially pleased to serve her crew while you're on board. 
Honest."

Fenicia seemed to squirm in her seat a little bit. She quickly caught 
herself and whispered a simple "Yeah, you're right."

Fenicia got up from the chair and was just about to walk through the 
threshold when Stratus suddenly remembered something.

"By the way, I meant to ask. Have you met our newest crewmate yet?" 