CHAPTER 11

The party was assembled. Willora for her knowledge of the immediate
area, Netto for his maps of the islands near the Storm Wall, Nimbus
for being the main connection to the letter of marque in the first
place, Zephyr and Justinienne just in case the "flagpoles" proved to
be significant, and of course Fenicia because she was de facto First
Mate. Also the flagpole thing.

Willora the donkey knew of a settlement bored into the cliffs where
some animals were sometimes found. The trick was finding the trail
which allowed one to quickly ascend and descend the cliff face. The
party had to march fairly quickly in order to work within the time
constraints they set for themselves. The sun was certainly on its way
down, but there were several hours of daylight remaining this long
summer day. Still, the party needed to cover quite a bit of ground.

"Who are these guys, again?" Zephyr asked.

"My clan, kinda," Willora explained. "The Rivkanese tribe of
cliffdwellers, horse, donkey and mule-folk. And bat-folk, too."

"An interesting combination," Justinienne remarked.

Willora chuckled lightly. "You find some donkeys talking in the bat
creole, sometimes. It's honestly kinda funny."

"Fascinating! But why don't you speak the bat accent, Willora?" Netto
inquired.

She shrugged. "Cuz I've spent the last seven years with you gang,"
she figured. She stopped in her tracks and addressed the party. "Okay,
here's the trailhead."

"...Wait, where?" Zephyr asked.

"Right here," Willora and Nimbus said simultaneously. Of course the
sure-hooved ones accustomed to this kind of terrain could spot the
trail immediately. "Trail" was a generous descriptor. It was more a
shelf barely carved into the red cliff face, hardly wider than
anybeast's shoulders, and very, very steep. Netto didn't even see it
at all through his broken spectacles. He would have to glue his eyes
to the rocky, dusty ground to keep a sure step. Fenicia had to pay
extra attention, too.

The sky was just beginning to turn pink when the party finally reached
their destination. The trail kept on going, but the little hamlet
carved into the cliff was all they had time for. Willora's description
came to life: a small village of equine and bat-folk forging a little
life for themselves. The unique aspects of mule culture and bat
culture visibly combined into yet another unique blend. The sheer
verticality of the place made manifest, there was no way to get from
Point A to Point B without climbing a palmwood ladder, or flying if
you were so lucky. Horses frequently carried their own ladders
throughout the day, which was no big thing because they were fully
collapsible and fitted with woven straps, worn just like a backpack.
Netto found the invention "most ingenious" but concluded Starry Vine
didn't need anything like that, her sophisticated network of rope
ladders was already in place and could withstand the unpredictable
tossing and turning at sea.

A flying fox flapped above them, donning a straw hat and carrying
several small jars with fireflies. Fenicia saw them inspecting the
lanterns installed throughout the place, hanging outside of
carved-rock homes, permanenty fixed ladders and even the town's
ceiling, and replaced some of them with fresh fireflies. It was still
light out, but better to finish that kind of work before it was too
late.

Zephyr and Justinienne caught a fragrant melange of spices wafting
through the main boulevard. A bat and a mule were cooking their meal
out of doors, practically in the middle of the street, because the
ventilation was better: bat staples like cricketflour pancakes fried
in coconut oil, steamed mangoes fresh from the river grove topped with
spanaster nectar-drizzle combined with the equine favorite,
Rivkanese-style grilled alfalfa. The party decided to buy some
cricketflour and alfalfa for their long shelf life after their actual
business was finished.

Willora guided the group through a winding maze of streets and
ladders, up and down, rooftop to rooftop. Eventually, she was visibly
lost and scratched her chin.

"Do you know where you're going?" Fenicia asked bluntly.

Willora turned to face her and sighed deeply. "No, not this far in...
I'll flag somebeast."

As the only one in the party with any proficiency in the local
dialect, Willora was able to catch the attention of a bat. She was
clearly struggling to find the words while the bat, who wore a
traditional spidersilk shawl, listened carefully as she hung
upside-down from a nearby ledge. The shawl was pinned to her vest so
as not to fall while inverted. The bat continued to listen but had her
eyes clearly focused on the party, scanning them, practically staring,
and then it finally struck them that they must have seemed *wildly*
out of place. Life on Starry Vine taught the crewmates that the sea is
for everybeast, that the demographics of mariners was entirely
irrelevant. Anyone could be the seafaring type. The ocean wasn't just
a place, it was every place, it was everywhere, so the idea of being
"from" somewhere hardly mattered. In a life of constantly moving,
where every navigable land was within a couple of weeks of sailing,
the concept that they were strangers never occurred to them. Such was
the great unifying power of the seas. And even Willora, who was born
and raised here in northeastern Kriyata, among the Rivkanese, wasn't
home, either.

Nimbus stared back at the bat. He resisted the urge to turn his head
to meet hers.

After a few misfires, Willora and the bat were finally able to
understand one another. Turns out they were simply on the wrong level,
needed to go one platform up. Willora's long ears fell in
embarassment. "This way," she said simply.

After the party clambered their way up to the next tier of town,
Willora immediately recognized her surroundings. The crewmates found
themselves in a small neighborhood where the exterior walls of most
buildings were decorated with tiles, elaborate mosaic murals. It was a
rich cultural tradition, a uniquely Rivkanese practice which was still
unknown to most Azuaverians, which made some sort of sense to the crew
because of how inaccessible they were. But before anyone could begin
to admire the craftbeastship, Willora had already turned a corner into
a narrow alley, nondescript save for how shady it seemed -- literally
and figuratively.

Finally, Willora opened a door. The crew saw the sign hanging above:
Kessawwree Fountain, "fountain" being a common nickname for a pub or a
tavern throughout the Archipelago. Underneath the sign lettering was a
stylized depiction of a fish's skeleton, which, in a silly way, made
the crew feel more at home.

The front room was populated with several circular tables, each
outfitted with a firefly lantern or a couple of candles, chairs which
mostly did not cater to large tails, and not too many guests. It still
was not late, things had not ramped up in there just yet, but at least
the place wasn't barren. Behind the bar was a colorful display of
bottles and flasks, made to seem larger with the help of strategically
placed mirrors. And of course, the bat himself, washing glasses and
tankards while hanging upside-down from a decorative, carpeted branch
purposefully built for hanging.

"'Iya, mateys," Kessawwree greeted automatically, his voice thick with
the sing-songy bat creole. "Take a seat anywhere you like, mm?" The
proprietor's joyful greeting disrupted the still atmosphere of the
joint, causing practically every guest to look up at the diverse
party. The crew got the same strange looks as the one from the bat who
had helped Willora.

Kessawwree finally looked up at the new customers after he had
finished cleaning his current glass. "Oh! You are not from here," he
said cheerfully.

"No, we're not," Fenicia agreed flatly.

"Well, dat is no big thing, mm? Every beast is welcome."

The crewmates staked out a cushioned booth in the corner that was
large enough to accommodate all six of them.

"Well, *I* am thirsty," Justinienne insisted. "Anyone want anything?"
she inquired, slowly stepping backwards towards the bar.

They didn't know about the other, but at that moment, both Fenicia and
Nimbus wanted stiff shots of sabal to deaden the pain they were both
feeling. But they also both knew right now was not the time for it.

"Whatever's fastest!" Netto bellowed.

Zephyr and Willora were sitting next to each other in the booth and
eyeing the other patrons carefully. "Who here looks like they would
know anything about the Temple of the Craft?" Zephyr muttered. It was
entirely equines and bats, of course, any of whom might have kept up
on nautical news.

"Surely there's a better place to look than here?" Nimbus snarled.

"'Fraid not, ram," Willora reckoned. "If the Temple is as the captain
described..." Willora choked a little at the thought and let her ears
droop momentarily. "If the rumors are true, then we won't find any
information about the Temple at the library, or even from the Navy.
Not that we'd have anything to do with them, anyway. It's all under
the table, still. And if we have time to visit only one spot while
docked at the hideout, then a place like this is our best bet. All
stripes here. Mariners, journalists, treasure-hunters, ..."

"...Stafferet associates, ..." Fenicia slipped in.

"So unless you have a direct connection to someone who has
up-to-the-minute details about it *right now,* we'll have to make do."

Nimbus could only sit back and join the others scoping out the place.

Fenicia noticed an ornate table, a sort of commode, hugging the wall
on the opposite corner. She passed by the bar and the conversation the
otter was having with the bartender in order to approach it. The
varnished palmood fixture stood at about waist-height. It was
essentially an old-fashioned chest situated on four feet of carved
shell, with an intricate design engraved on top: a reliefed, circular
vignette of waves crashing at the beach, stylized clouds, and starfish
arranged on the sand in the pattern of the Port Sokuit flag. Flanking
either side of the vignette were two lobsters rampant, their upstage
claws pointing to a slot towards the top of the image, which was
accompanied by a brass label with stamped letters: "INSERT COIN."
Intrigued, Fenicia felt for a silver piece from her pocket and slid it
into the little hole. She did not expect the coin to take such a
mazelike path throughout the cabinet's innards, rolling heavily like a
pup's marble-sculpture toy. It sounded like a music box was
automatically being wound inside. And indeed, a music box *was* being
wound, but not like any Fenicia had ever seen before.

The coin made its final clunk into the very bottom of the cabinet,
which caused the machine to open! The circular scene on the tabletop
was actually a hatch, and it cranked itself open to reveal a large,
heavy and immaculately polished conch shell that was affixed to its
underside. In the recessed portion which the shell had occupied while
the hatch was closed, Fenicia could see an impossibly dense network of
gears, levers, switches, wires, and... a sand-dollar with a spiral
carved on its surface? Everybeast turned to see what in the
Hurricane's Eye was going on. Even Fenicia found herself muttering out
loud, "What the...?"

"You have discovered Mx. Manta's Marvelous Music Machine, mm?"
Kesawwree called. Nimbus looked up.

Fenicia turned around with a bewildered look to face the bat. "Music
machine?" Justinienne was also there, sipping on some boozy something
with a straw.

Then the needle hit the record. Faint crackles of surface noise
emanated from the conch, and then: a swelling of violins, a brave
piano, an expressive flute, a romantic accordion, southern-style drums
and even a male animal's voice. The conch contained an entire
orchestra! Fenicia didn't know the tune. Justinienne pawed over to the
machine to see the innards for herself. The two observed the tangle
of gears and wires inside, and then looked at each other.

You know that Netto had to stop whatever he was doing in order to be
voluntarily wowed by the contraption. He lumbered out of the booth and
headed straight for the thing, nearly prancing like a ballerino.
Zephyr expected him to fall over on account of his broken spectacles,
but instead he just heartily danced and sang along.

> These are the lyrics to the song!
> Wowee these are the lyrics to the song!
> I sure like singing this song!
> La la la de day dum dayo woooh
>
> I would climb the starry vine
> For you, my dear...

-- All the crewmates except for Netto reacted, but Fenicia's ears
perked up the most --

> ...You must seize the day
> xxx yyy zzz aa bbb ccc

The raccoon successfully twirled his way over to the record player and
was able to get a glimpse of its inner machinations before the short
song finished, when the device shut down and the hatch closed again.
"What a splendid artifact!" he exclaimed, furiously scribbling notes
with his trusty quill. Amongst the scratching of the pen, he whispered
to the girls: "Looks like the inside of the squid-shark thing."
Justinienne nodded. Fenicia bit her lip.

XXX I WANNA MOVE ON FROM THIS CHAPTER
XXX THEY LEARN ABOUT MX. MANTA
XXX THEY LEARN FROM THE LOCALS THAT THE STRANGE ANTENNAE WERE NOT PUT
UP BY THEM
XXX THEY PURCHASE A MAP FRAGMENT THAT SHOWS SOME LANDMARKS THAT WILL
HELP NAVIGATE THROUGH THE MISTS NEAR THE STORM WALL
