CHAPTER 8

Mercifully, the rest of the day was uneventful. Per the captain's
orders, the junkpile was transferred into the cargo hold, which did
make some crewmates feel more at ease. Out of sight, out of mind. Does
wonders.

The night's moon was properly full. Zephyr and another canine
crewmate, a blue-eyed Samoyed named Stazio, had a silly tradition of
howling at it over a tankard of some alcoholic something or another.
They had given up long ago to convince Fenicia to join them in their
ritual. Her explanation was simple: "I'm not a wolf." But the other
dogs and even some other mates thought it wasn't unjustified, since
the flag they flew under literally depicted a wolf. Therefore, wasn't
everyone on the crew a wolf of some sort?

"Yeah, a severed dead wolf head meant to intimidate our enemies,"
Fenicia announced over the howling.

Zephyr was panting. "Well, pfft, when you put it that way..." Stazio
began.

Fenicia took a sip of her own drink, a distinctly non-celebratory
lager. "Champ, you look perfectly feral." Zephyr nodded excitedly.

"Why's she call you 'Champ,' anyway?" said Stazio. Fenicia plunged her
face into her paw and shook her head.

"You don't know the story?" Zephyr asked. He immediately dove right
in. "Before you accepted the invitation, when Fenicia and I were still
pups --"

"Adolescents," Fenicia interjected.

"Really? It seemed so long ago."

"It *was* long ago."

"Anyway, back in the days of yore, the Starry Vine got trapped on a
sandbar in the southeast, you know, Maluine Atoll? The highest
elevation down there is, like, two hooves above sea level. Between
that and all the coral, it's really tricky to navigate a vessel as big
as our beloved Galleon. So she's stuck on the sandbar and we're kinda
stranded, we're not sure what to do, so while some of the crew went on
the lifeboats to fetch for help, we had a whole island to ourselves
and then we had ourselves a little... obstacle course?"

"Jay called it an Olympiad," Fenicia remarked.

"It was just a way to shake a leg and have some fun. And that's when
we learned that I run really, really fast. I'm not the fastest dog in
Azuaveria or anything like that. But among the crew at the time, and
the fact that I had just *blossomed* into adulthood, apparently, yeah,
I was young and fit."

"Still are," Stazio mentioned off-paw.

"Hah. So I won a gold medal. Fenicia made a wreath of spanaster
flowers and gave it to me."

"You just... made a wreath like that?" Stazio was surprised.

"They grow on a vine, you just snap it off and tie the ends together,"
Fenicia explained straightforwardly.

"But yeah," Zephyr concluded, "she bestowed the trophy onto me. I'm
the champion."

"You don't have that wreath still? Probably not..." Stazio wondered.

"No, not at all, that thing wilted away ages ago."

"That's a fun story," Stazio admitted. And it was. "How did Starry
Vine get unstuck anyway?"

"Really old-fashioned tugboats from a shipbreaking settlement in
Maluine," Fenicia stated. "Took forever to explain to them that we
didn't want them to tear down Starry Vine..."

A few minutes later, Captain Stratus approached the group, but he
clearly had his eye on the golden retriever. He asked if he could have
a word with her, and naturally she said yes. They proceeded to the
other side of the ship, away from the moon, and looked out over the
water. "You're not in trouble, Fenicia."

"I didn't think I was."

"I knew you wouldn't rush to such a hasty and nonsensical conclusion
anyway." He looked up at the starry sky. She just looked at him and
his corn-cob pipe. Finally, he asked: "What does Starry Vine mean to
you, Fenicia?"

She furrowed her brow. "What do you mean, captain?"

"What do you think I mean?"

What a strange question, and seemingly from out of nowhere. But, the
only sensible thing was to tell the truth. "...Well, at risk of
sounding overly sentimental, I always thought that --" She hesitated,
then started over. "We're supposed to reach for the stars. That means
we've succeeded, somehow. But the stars are way too far. So, climbing
the vine is how we get there. It's really tall and very scary to be so
high off the ground. But you just gotta hold on, and as long as we all
hold on, someone's gonna catch you if you fall... Captain, may I be
perfectly blunt?"

"Always."

"I feel really stupid."

"Why?"

"Nothing I just said made any logical sense."

When the captain turned to face her, he could see the night sky
reflected in her watery eye. "Then why did you say it?" he asked
gently.

Fenicia desperately scanned his face for any clues about what was
going on. Was she being tested? The truthful answer to his question
was, "Because I can tell you anything," but he had some explaining to
do, first.

"Captain, where is this line of questioning headed?" she countered.

"A very, very good place." He was cryptic, but not foreboding.

Fenicia was not fully reassured, but she was not worried, either.
Finally, she had the courage to blurt: "Rumor has it that you've been
considering me to be First Mate, is that what this is about?"

Stratus looked around strategically, as if making sure a certain
somebeast wasn't within earshot. "Not fully," he admitted, "but yes."

Fenicia simply nodded upon hearing the confirmation. "Wouldn't Netto
be a wiser choice?"

"On the contrary. I am thoroughly convinced you have something which
both he and I lack."

"What might that be?" Fenicia was genuinely curious.

Stratus took a long, deliberate drag from his pipe, and blew it out
into the nighttime. It smelled like an impossible combination of stale
honey and fresh mint. "I haven't quite put my hoof on it, yet," he
muttered, then headed back belowdecks without warning.
