CHAPTER 5

Breakfast consisted of crushed granola, canned fruit, grilled salmon,
junglefowl jerky and black coffee. It wasn't glamorous, but it got the
job done. The coffee was the main attraction anyway, lightly roasted
Inko beans from a farm only a dozen miles west of Port Sokuit. The
nutty aroma was pleasant and distinct all on its own, so hardly
anybeast demanded to make a landlubber concotion like as a latte with
oat milk and sugarcane. Besides, there was not enough room in the
miniscule icebox for such luxuries as milk -- it was strictly to
preserve the day's catch.

Dawn had just barely broken, but the shirtless rabbit was already
commandeernig three separate fishing rods, each one awaiting a bite.
He was pleased to see the new, high quality bait and fishing line when
he had opened the tacklebox earlier. He took a healthy sip of coffee
as he gazed out over the foggy, barely sunlit horizon.

The rabbit heard a small drop of water. The first rod bowed slightly.
Something was tugging at it, something small. No big deal, any fish
was valuable as long as it could be cleaned and cooked. The rabbit
could tell that it was small enough to be reeled in with only one paw.
The rods were anchored to the deck, so all he needed to do was turn
the crank while casually sipping some more Inko brew. An azurefin
dotafish slowly ascended into view, its desperate face pierced cleanly
with a barbed hook. The rabbit was pleased with himself, despite its
common, unimpressive size. The gills glistened gently in the rabbit's
eye.

Then a massive tentacle suddenly shot out of the water and yanked it
right off!!

"Merciful mackerel!" the rabbit exclaimed. The fishing rod snapped
cleanly in twain with a thunderous crack that may have reverberated
for miles. Immediately, every hoof and paw was on deck. The spilled
coffee almost burned the rabbit's foot.

Another tentacle breached the surface as the crew sprinted into
position. It was definitely trying to grab a hold of the ship. Zephyr
and Justinielle were gobsmacked and awestruck. Nimbus furiously dashed
directly towards the action. Netto lumbered with many scrolls and
charts tucked under his arm. Lani, who was perched on Netto's
shoulder, cowered in fear beneath her own wings. The tentacle crashed
back into the water, which formed a big wave and jostled the ship.

Fenicia's heart was pounding. Her mangy tail reflexively wanted to
shove itself straight between her legs, but she had the fortitude to
make sure it didn't. She looked to the captain with her good eye for
guidance.

Stratus had to consider several things all at once. He held his
corn-cob pipe for the split-second he was thinking. Clearly, Starry
Vine had intruded upon the thing's territory. So it made some sense to
just run away, simply leave the thing in peace. But there was barely
any wind she could ride on -- the creature would absolutely outpace
the ship even in the best of circumstances. It was actively trying to
climb on deck, an offensive gesture. The monster had to be
neutralized. The captain declared it so.

The crewmates quickly realized that pistols would only be effective if
the creature had already made its way on deck, which wasn't smart.
Some mates climbed up the mast to get a better picture of what they
were dealing with. The cannons were an option, but the extremely close
range of the target was a hindrance. There had to be a way to get rid
of it while it was still underwater.

Justinielle, far and away the crew's most capable swimmer, had the
instinct to jump into the water to get the best view of the thing, but
it still wasn't clear whether this was just a really big octopus, or...
something considerably more dangerous.

Fenicia had an idea.

"Captain," she spat, "give me your comb."

His face said "Are you insane?!" but he had learned to trust her like
the first mate he never had.

While he dug through his pocket, Fenicia had already given another
order: "Nimbus! The pole, at your hoof." Indeed, a heap of scrap
lumber was tucked away where he stood. He hesitated, and was angry at
his own hesitation. "A pole, I said!" Fenicia reiterated.

"Why?!" he retorted.

"Trust me!"

He didn't, but nevertheless she got a suitable piece of wood, long and
thin, unevenly rounded.

Fenicia's paw accepted the captain's comb. She flicked it open,
swapping it into its true knife form, and used it to tear apart the
twine bracelets she had made for herself. She gave the knife, stick
and twine to the nearest crewmate, a black cat. "Raszlo! Make a
spear." Quickly, the cat went to work.

Netto noticed Fenicia's actions. "A harpoon! Why, of course! Why don't
we have any of those? I should put that on the list!" He fumbled for
his quill. Several other crewmates were inspired to improvise their
own spears, too.

Someone who had taken a lookout position called down below. "It be not
octopus nor squid!" Netto, Stratus and Justinielle all stared at one
another upon hearing the report.

"It couldn't be...?!" Stratus wondered.

Netto yanked one of the chart-scrolls from under his arm and unfurled
it like a projection screen. "If it truly is, then this is the
furthest south one has ever been sighted!" He pointed on his little
map Starry Vine's current location, which was well below the
constellation of little symbols, each of which depicted a... uh...

The monster leapt out of the water!! On full display was a hideous
assemblage of nautical creatures: a chimera of an orca's body, the
tentacles of an octopus, the teeth of a shark, and the exoskeleton of
a crab! The quickest mates took the opportunity to shoot at it. It was
smaller than what the tentacles suggested, the size of a very large
bear, rather than a whale. It was possible that just one or two
animals were needed to take it down. Curiously, it didn't try to leap
directly onto the deck, rather, it leapt alongside the ship -- as if
it were trying to get ahead of them. Its belly-flop back into the
water pushed out another choppy wave.

Fenicia was paying attention to the monster's flight. It didn't look
right. Beyond the fact it was a creepy collage of monsters, rather.
No, its path, the arc it had made over the water. It didn't resemble a
dolphin's breach. It seemed... stiff.

The instant Raszlo finished securing the captain's comb-knife, Fenicia
grabbed the harpoon and sprinted straight for Zephyr. Seemingly able
to read her mind, the collie squatted down as Fenicia stepped onto his
paws, and he gave her a boost. Harpoon in one paw, dangling from a
loose rope with another, her momentum caused her to swing outward,
around the mast. At the right moment, she let go, hurling herself
overboard, just as if she had swung from a vine.

The crew watched in awe as she dropped directly on top of the hideous
creature and plunged the spear directly onto its dorsal side. It let
out a hideous roar. Justinielle didn't know if Fenicia needed saving,
or if it meant the monster could be safely killed, or both, but she
bit on the handle of her knife and dove into the water after her
anyway.

Fenicia halfway expected the monster to recoil in pain, but instead it
jerked sideways. She also anticipated the spear to come out mostly
clean, like a toothpick in a cupcake that was almost done. But, no.
The spear was jammed in the creature's body and Fenicia had to pull
extra hard to pry it out. Justinielle's own underwater blow to the
creature's belly made the thing shake even more violently, and then,
suddenly, it stopped. And when Fenicia's spear did finally pop out,
glommed onto it was a tangled mess of wires and gears.

To say everybeast was perplexed would be a gross understatement.

A stillness took over the crew, with the sole exception of Netto, who
proclaimed: "Fascinating! I must write this down!"

Justinielle returned to the surface with her own bolus of wires.

After a moment to catch her breath, Fenicia finally processed what
just happened. "Uh, mateys," she said plainly, "it's sinking." Indeed,
the mechanical chimera thing was slowly taking on water.

"Get back here," Captain Stratus called. "Someone help her up.
Justine!"

The otter was floating on her back. "Aye, cap'n?"

He tossed her a large net. "Salvage what you can, but don't take too
long or overextend yourself. As fascinating as it is, there is no
sense in trying to preserve this entire thing for ourselves."

"Aye-aye, cap'n," she acknowledged, and went to work.

"We don't want to arouse suspicion by having an entire one of them,
intact, on our ship," Stratus explained to everyone near to him. "We
just need enough to understand what among the stars *is* this infernal
contraption." He made a show of putting his corn-cob pipe back into
his mouth.

Fenicia, with the ad-hoc spear in paw, clambored up the rope ladder 
and made it safely back on deck. Some crewmates applauded her safe 
return. She was soaked, and her long, gray-yellow fur dripped on the 
deck like a thunderstorm. Her breathing was heavy and coarse. She tore 
the knife from the stick, retracted the blade, and returned it to her 
captain. The globule of wires, gears, screws, rivets and other 
mechanical components clattered onto the ground. The crew peered down 
over the pile of parts, uncertain what to make of it.