CHAPTER 10

Stratus should have been given a proper send-off, with a raft
purposefully built to hold his casket and then ceremoniously sunk with
a special anchor, but that didn't make any sense while they weren't
actually at sea. But keeping his corpse on board for any longer than
necessary was the surest-fire way to accumulate bad luck. So they were
forced to make a traditional funeral for him, buried in the ground
like a landlubber. The crew found a shady grove only a few dozen paces
away from where Starry Vine was docked. Stratus would rest in the sand
against a wall of orange-colored spanaster flowers coating the cliff
face, a serene spot where one could meditate on the river's run. At
night, the grove would be illuminated with fireflies, providing a
mystical glow which mimicked his proud smile. They did not mark the
grave -- he would not have a marked grave if this were done properly,
anyway -- but Netto did place his corn-cob pipe on a nearby rock.

The crew could not focus on Stratus as much as they would have liked.
His murder meant that they were in a particularly dangerous place. The
new plan -- rather, the Plan B the crew had already decided upon
beforepaw -- was to get out of there and back on the ocean first thing
next day. If they couldn't gather the intelligence they sought within
that time, well, they would just have to make do.

After the hushed ceremony, almost everybeast returned to the hideout
and stayed close to The Galleon, but two stayed behind. Nimbus
collapsed onto his knees and wept sour tears. Fenicia closed her eye
forcefully and took deep, methodical breaths. Zephyr and Justinienne
could tell even at a distance that she was in pain.

Nimbus huddled himself tightly and sniffled. He looked up at the
golden retriever. "Fenicia."

Fenicia finished her breath before replying. "Aye."

"How did he...?"

Fenicia opened her good eye and looked down at the ram. "Didn't you
see?"

"I wasn't there when he was choked to death, no!!" Nimbus screamed.

"...Nimbus, I don't know what to say. The assassins must have snuck in
through the porthole while we were distracted by the musket-beast up
above. They were singularly focused on him, otherwise they would've
sent an army... we didn't see them coming!"

"Why didn't you do something, then, oh ye almighty First Mate
Fenicia?!"

"I did! I clashed swords with the ferret. Try to be realistic."

Nimbus shot straight up. His black-and-white face met with Fenicia's
and his eyes were bleary. "That's precisely the sort of nonsense he
would say," he accused bitterly, wiping his muzzle on his sleeve.

Fenicia was beginning to lose it herself. "Nimbus, I didn't let the
captain die!"

"Yeah, right. There were three of you and two of them. The three 'best
and brightest' of Starry Vine couldn't handle a couple of lowly
mercenaries."

"Clam it. They're Sharktooth's cronies, they're extremely well-trained
and can easily overpower anybeast!"

"No more excuses, mutt! How can you possibly say that, when I took one
of them out myself? A potshot!"

"That was you?" She genuinely didn't know, but Nimbus refused to
dignify it with an answer. He turned away and rejoined the rest of the
crew.

Fenicia was spent. She sat on the rock beside Stratus' corn-cob pipe
and tried to concentrate on the sound of the river, but was
interrupted by the flaps of a red truco's wings coming in to land on
the sand in front of her.

"Ahoy, Lani," Fenicia muttered. Lani proceeded to preen her feathers.
"Lani..." Fenicia leaned down and encouraged the bird to perch on her
forearm. She complied, her claws digging into Fenicia's crabshell
gauntlets. Then, with her free paw, Fenicia petted Lani. Careful,
downward strokes to follow the grain of the magenta plumage. Lani
seemed to enjoy it.

Nothing but the sound of a river's run and the gentle rustle of
feathers.

After a few minutes, Fenicia admitted: "Lani. I couldn't save him... I
let the captain die." She looked into the truco's eyes, as if
expecting her to agree, or disagree, or say anything. But instead, she
hopped off Fenicia's arm, snatched the corn-cob pipe into her beak and
flew away.

-----

The party was assembled. Willora for her knowledge of the immediate
area, Netto for his maps of the islands near the Storm Wall, Nimbus
for being the main connection to the letter of marque in the first
place, Zephyr and Justinienne just in case the "flagpoles" proved to
be significant, and of course Fenicia because she was de facto First
Mate. Also the flagpole thing.

Willora the donkey knew of a passageway that bore into the cliffs
where some animals were sometimes found. The trick was finding the
trail which allowed one to quickly ascend and descend the cliff face.
The party had to march fairly quickly in order to work within the time
constraints they set for themselves. The sun was certainly on its way
down, but there were several hours of daylight remaining this long
summer day. Still, the party needed to travel quite a bit of ground.

"Who are these guys, again?" Zephyr asked.

"My clan, kinda," Willora explained. "The Rivkanese tribe of
cliffdwellers, horse, donkey and mule-folk. And bat-folk, too."

"An interesting combination," Justinienne remarked.

"You find some donkeys talking in the bat creole, sometimes. It's
honestly kinda funny."

"Fascinating! But why don't you speak the bat accent, Willora?" Netto
inquired.

Willora shrugged. "Cuz I've spent the last seven years with you gang,"
she figured. She stopped and addressed the party. "Okay, here's the
trailhead."

"...Wait, where?" Zephyr asked.

"Right here," Willora and Nimbus said simultaneously. Of course the
sure-hooved ones accustomed to this kind of terrain could spot the
trail immediately. It was a shelf barely carved into the cliff face,
barely wider than anybeast's shoulders, and very, very steep. Nimbus
didn't even see it at all through his broken spectacles.