CHAPTER 6

Netto recorded the precise coordinates, as best as he could compute,
of the location where the strange machine sank. Justinienne had filled
the net with more parts from the strange machine. She attempted to
take a sample from each, shall we say, body part, before the
contraption sank too deep: the tentacles, the fins, the teeth, and so
on. She dumped her loot on top of the pile that Fenicia had started.
The captain semi-joked about having regrets starting a "veritable
junkyard" on his ship. Lani had already found a shiny washer and
picked it up in her beak.

Three parts of the machine were easy to recognize, and perhaps even to
appreciate as well. First, the mechanical tentacles were implemented
with several articulating joints driven by small chains, almost
precisely like gears on a bicycle. Secondly, at the core of the
monster's gaping maw was a traditional cassowary trap, but wound extra
tight and outfitted with hardened, excessively sharpened teeth. Such a
modification would cause unnecessary suffering on the birds, but
surely the inventor of this thing had a different purpose in mind.
Last, the machine was able to swim much like actual fish, by
"sidewinding" or wiggling its body laterally. Justinienne had
extracted a subassembly with a curved but rigid backbone attached to
metallic linkages which mimicked this behavior. That assembly was
driven by an electromagnetic motor -- very high technology.
Altogether, the innards were kept dry while underway with the "crab
exoskeleton" that was made of some highly hydrophobic material,
perhaps synthetic, which no one on board recognized.

Stratus wanted to make sure he was heard loud and clear. "It was a
bizarre encounter, but I don't want us to be distracted by it for any
longer than we have to. We are still bound by the terms of the letter
of marque I showed ye yesterday, we still have actual work ahead. We
will document what we've found here and then it will immediately
become spare parts and scrap material to be stored in the cargo hold.
I want this junkyard to be *useful* to us, not to be a, ah, an endless
fountain of gossip and rumours. Understood, mateys?"

He was met with a wave of "Aye-ayes."

"Now, before you are all dismissed, while I have all your eyes and
ears -- I must congratulate you, Fenicia, for keeping your wits about
you. You hear that, mateys? She was able to evaluate the threat, and
made a clear stand and mobilized us to act quickly, without losing a
single beat. That was her, not me. Give her a paw or a hoof, or even a
pint or something."

The crowd had all turned to face Fenicia, who was trying to dry
herself with a towel, to little avail. So she shook her whole body
like the dog she was. She did not know she was being looked at until
she finished shaking and her poofy, air-dried long fur materialized
and made her look silly.

Predictably, she hadn't anything to say. Just sort of stared back at
the crew who were cheering for her. Eventually, she let a half-smile
creep in across the muzzle when she saw Zephyr's earnest reaction.

-----

"You see?! I told you so!" Nimbus shouted, closing the office door
behind him.

"I have to admit that your instincts were proven correct in the end,"
his uncle replied, seated behind the desk.

"That's precisely why I think you had better listen to me next time,
old ram."

"Keep your crickets in your pocket, Nimbus. I was going off of the
information I had, which was: exactly one mate did not prove beyond a
reasonable doubt there was a threat, and no one else detected one in
the first place. Therefore, there was no threat. Just because your
sharp ears did pick up aggression this time, doesn't mean they will
always do the right thing later. Try to be realistic."

"Aren't you the least bit worried about what this could mean? There
might be a swarm, a horde of killing machines out there!"

"But we haven't seen a horde of killing machines, or even heard of
one. I asked Nimbus to carefully review the chart that he had shown
me, with all those previous sightings. He's evaluating whether what we
witnessed today is the only time one of these things has proven...
belligerent."

"You're going to ignore the possibility of it?"

"For the time, yes, I am. Fenicia demonstrated that all you need is
one or two crewmates to take it down."

"Fenicia, it's always Fenicia, isn't it! At this rate, she may as
well be First Mate."

"I have considered promoting her," Stratus said earnestly.

Nimbus snarled and changed the subject. "I think we should have
salvaged the entire machine, to better equip ourselves for the next
time this happens. We could have cast our largest net and reeled it in
with the crank-winch. We might have been able to repair it and make it
part of *our* arsenal."

"The ocean is leagues deep in these parts. It would have become
exceedingly difficult to accomplish that, since only Justine would
have the capacity to ensnare it whole in the net -- and she's only one
otter. Not worth the effort. *Also,* you can't possibly know there is
going to *be* a 'next time,' can you? Unless you know something that I
should. Furthermore, I'd argue that it is impossible to safely use a
complicated weapon we, well, *found* haphazardly, even if we did have
the user's manual."

Nimbus scowled.

"Nimbus. Your aptitude and seaworthiness are not in question. I am
still grateful that you were able to get me in contact with the
Stafferet clan to fund our voyage. But you must leave the captain's
decisions up to the captain."

"But I was right," Nimbus muttered aggressively.

"You were right that there was something in the water. I was also
right that it wasn't a threat at the time. Both of these things can be
true. Is that so hard to accept?"

Nimbus didn't answer. He bit his lip, turned on his hoof, and left.
